Stream Control Transmission Protocol (SCTP)
====================
SCTP provides services similar to those offered by UDP and TCP. SCTP is
described in RFC 2960, and updated by RFC 3309. An introduction to SCTP is
available in RFC 3286. SCTP provides associations between clients and
servers. SCTP also provides applications with reliability, sequencing, flow
control, and full-duplex data transfer, like TCP. The work "association" is
used in SCTP instead of "connection" to avoid the connotation that a
connection involves communication between only two IP addresses. An
association refers to a comminucation between two systems, which may involve
more than two addresses due to multihoming.

Unlike TCP, SCTP is message-oriented. It provides sequenced delivery of
individual records. Like UDP, the length of a record written by the sender
is passed to the receiving application.

SCTP can provide multiple streams between connection endpoints, each with
its own reliable sequenced delivery of messages. A lost message in one of
these streams does not block delivery of messages in any of the other
streams. This approach is in contrast to TCP, where a loss at any point in
the single stream of bytes blocks delivery of all future data on the
connection until the loss is repaired.

SCTP also provides a multihoming feature, which allows a single SCTP
endpoint to support multiple IP addresses. This feature can provide
increased robustness against network failure. An endpoint can have multiple
redundant network connections, where each of these networks has a different
connection to the Internet infrastructure. SCTP can work around a failure
of one network or path across the Internet by switching to another address
already associated with the SCTP association.
---- Similar robustness can be obtained from TCP with help from routing
protocols.
